We've now got our class based component so it's time for us to figure out how to use this to fetch some
data for our application.
So the first question we must ask ourselves is when exactly do we want to fetch some data from the API.
You know like when our program first boots up when are we going to decide hey this is now the time for
me to fetch some data from the API and get that list of albums.
Well you know we probably want to fetch that data as soon as our app boots up.
There's no like buttons in this application for the user and press that says like OK now we want to
load data here.
We just want to say as soon as this thing is about to load up as soon as it's about to display on the
screen I want to go and fetch some data.
So to make that happen we need some type of like a hook or some event notification of when this component
right here is about to be rendered onto the screen of our device.
Fortunately re-act has discovered this is one of the benefits of class based components class based
components have a unique advantage over functional components called life cycle methods.
So keyword term their lifecycle methods.
Remember earlier when I mentioned that functional components are like a hose right.
Like some data goes in and GSX comes out in juxtaposition with that are kind of opposed to that are
class based components which have a lot more knowledge of themselves like this class based component.
It knows when it's about to be rendered.
It knows when it's about to be removed from the screen has more sense about what's going on inside the
application.
So they know exactly when they are about to render to the screen and we can get notification of that
by using a lifecycle method lifecycle methods are functions that will place on our class that will be
automatically called at some point one such lifecycle method is called component will mount so we can
define a method on the class called specifically component will amount any time that our component about
to be rendered to the screen or screen of our device.
This method will automatically be executed it will automatically be called for us.
So I'll place component will mount on my class and now just because I defined a method specifically
with this name it will automatically be executed as soon as this component is about to be rendered to
the screen.
So you say like I know maybe I'm telling the truth here right.
Maybe on line.
I don't know.
Let's let's throw a console log in here just to verify that.
Yup this thing is actually getting called automatically for us.
So I to say a log and let's do you know cissé component will mount's in album list.
So our expectation here is that when I refresh the simulator I should see this console log.
You know I don't know somewhere right.
I should see a console log pop up that says this right here.
Just instantly.
So let's flip over to the simulator and refresh.
And where in the world the console logs pop up right.
We haven't spoken about that at all.
So we haven't really spoken about how we debug our application with re-act Navy at all.
How do we debug this.
How do we get any feedback from our application.
Clearly there's no consulate here.
There's no consulate in our terminal.
Wherever the terminal might be here we go.
So here is my package right here.
There's no consul logs here.
So somewhere we must be getting some debug feedback.
So to get this debug feedback from re-act native we're going to use the builtin debugger with re-act
native while having my simulator focused.
I'm going to press Commandery on my keyboard to open up the re-act made a development Menil in the side
of this menu I'm going to find debug J.S. remotely and then just go ahead and click it.
When I click it a chrome window automatically picks up or whatever browser you might be using this chrome
tab right here is automatically linked up to the simulator and you can kind of think of this as an extension
of the re-act native application that's running.
So I can use this chrome instance as chrome window to debug my re-act native code.
Let's see how it works.
I'm gonna open up the development console by just right clicking anywhere on the screen and then click
on inspect and then if I select the console tab let me zoom in a little bit here just to make it nice
and large.
You can see the console log component will mount an album list.
So clearly this chrome one right here is very cleverly with some god knows what magic.
Honestly it is total magic.
Hooked up to the Iowa simulator and any console logs or any warnings or any errors anything whatsoever
that we place inside of our code is going to appear inside of this browser window here.
So having your chrome window open hooked up to the re-activated of emulator or simulator I should say
is a fantastic way to debug your code.
We will be using console logs on and off throughout the rest of this course just to verify that things
are running and do some debugging.
The one thing I also want to mention that we won't really be doing too much is enough if I want I can
also place debugger statements inside of my code so a place debugger right here.
And then if I flip back over to Chrome flip back over to my emulator Skewes my simulator and if I refresh
it Crome will automatically hit that debug breakpoints and enter into debug mode.
So here we go.
So I'm paused an execution right here on the debug statement.
And so at this point time I can do some console logs you know inspect some variables like hey what's
what's this what's the value of this right here.
Oh kids album list.
So using debugger statements absolutely fantastic for figuring out what is going on with their code.
Highly recommended.
OK.
So a little bit of a quick aside there about debugging.
Getting back on topic.
And by the way I kind to flip back over a move that debugger statement and I'm also going to make sure
I continue execution of my code by clicking the play button right here and I should now see.
So the album list popped the up on the screen.
Perfect.
OK so getting back to where we were clearly component will mount right here is a fantastic location
to initiate some loading of data or some HDTV a request to go and fetch our data and retrieve it for
our application.
So let's continue on the next section and figure out exactly how we are going to make that network request.